so welcome hutch
can you
start by telling us a little bit about
um what kind of
you know stuff you do on the interwebs
and where we can find you
sure yeah so typically if you just
search hutch on most of the platforms
you should find me there's another hutch
out there i'm sorry to disappoint some
people in your chat my chat was saying
that
some people in your chat was were
expecting another hutch who does gta rp
that's unfortunately not me but i
started doing video stuff with video
games and youtube
in 2008 uh when there were no
gamers that were doing it for money so
back then we were like the the original
people that were doing it it was just a
hobby
y'all are the ogs
yeah some people will call me an og sure
yeah and then um
people figured out that if you can get
enough people to watch it then you can
make money doing it and sort of the rest
is history but
since then i've sort of
gone through like i've had to reinvent
myself a couple times i'm a little bit
older now and um so you know i dabble in
political coverage as well as video game
stuff and more recently i've started a
podcast of my own discussing mental
health best practices with other
creators
oh wow that's that's been a ton of fun
and um uh you know i try to advocate for
for people to take care of themselves
and be open about their struggles and
that's something i always have done with
the platform that i have so i reached
out to you thinking like it would just
be such a great uh idea to sit down and
get a chance to talk to you cool so um
can you tell me a little bit more about
the podcast or tell us a little bit more
about the podcast
um yeah it's just uh it's just this
podcast like i call it fitter happier
it's a that's a radiohead song and
there's some lyrics behind that that
makes sense but no it's just i bring in
other creators and and i you know i try
to make it clear that i'm not a
therapist and so and this isn't therapy
and uh you know that if they have any
questions they should if any viewers
have any questions they should
definitely consult a professional and uh
and then we just talk about people's
various struggles uh
more specifically as it pertains to
content creation because there's this
expectation that you're always supposed
to be on you're always supposed to be
happy and funny um
and i'm trying to challenge that as much
as i can because i think that that can
lead to bad outcomes sometimes
yeah can you explain that a little bit
sure i just think that
um it's easy to get lost in your online
persona when you do this for a living
that's happened to me a couple of times
i've struggled with
sort of a sense of identity of who i was
and uh there were different times where
i was letting the kind of person that i
would become
while recording content i was sort of
letting that take over
uh most of my personality
uh and that person wasn't very likable
to me when i when it when i would stop
and think about it
and so
um yeah i would say that that issues of
identity and kind of keeping a solid
foundation of who i am has been
something that i've struggled with and
it's gotten a lot better for me recently
but
it's it's it's been my downfall a couple
a couple different times
and is so hutch did you thanks so much
for sharing man like there's so much
there that i would love to talk to you
about
um
i wanted to just uh kind of clarify a
couple things so
what do you think would be like a good
use of our time today like do you want
to talk about
you know what you sort of learned
running the podcast uh kind of like
talking about content creation or were
you hoping to have or do you think it
would be more productive have a little
bit more of a personal conversation
because i'm super curious about your
experience of you know figuring out who
you are and sort of getting lost
in your identity and and things like
that
i think the latter would be the better a
better um way to spend this time of of
discussing uh the personal stuff i don't
know if i have too much of an interest
in discussing like the podcast stuff
okay cool can you hold on just one
second uh my producer is calling me
because much like you i'm i'm a little
bit of a boomer
and i use this thing called a telephone
all good
hey what's up
yeah sure
no no thanks
okay i had your volume too
oh i see so it's been fixed now um and
so i thought maybe it was your producer
telling you that you got the wrong hatch
no i think i think we love the hutch
that we got whether right or wrong
um
and and so
just to clarify is your understanding
that what we're doing if we're going to
have a personal conversation is your
understanding that you kind of mentioned
on your podcast that you kind of say
consult a professional do you think that
what we're doing today is therapy
um not in the strictest sense of the
word i wouldn't say okay
um
so what what do you think we are gonna
do today
well just to clarify i i have my own
therapist and so like i understand that
the sessions that i have with that
therapist are going to be um
comprehensive and long-term and that
sort of thing and i understand that this
is just a conversation so okay um
i'm sorry i forgot your question what
was it again oh that's fine so i i'm
kind of curious so
you um
mentioned like i was really intrigued by
what you said about like loss
uh you sort of lost your sense of
identity and sort of had trouble
figuring out kind of who you are
can you tell me a little bit about that
yeah you know i think
if i go all the way back to when i was a
kid i struggled with um relating to my
peers getting along with my peers i was
very
social very very naturally hyper-social
when i was a young young kid i would
walk up and introduce myself to
strangers and
i was just very curious about the world
and then when i got into uh second grade
i went to like a private catholic school
and that was in that catholic school
through
uh 12th grade
it took me a long time to connect with
my peers i was sort of ostracized and
teased and that kind of thing and what i
figured out at some point was if i can
make them laugh then i can sort of get
into the in-crowd
and so i
i didn't realize it but i was sort of
modeling my personality back then based
on what other people thought of me
and i wasn't really spending a lot of
time with my own self and you know
cultivating the things within me that i
liked um
and uh by the time i got to adulthood
just
generally speaking that was very
confusing
because i didn't know who i was and uh
that that question terrified me
what was scary about that question
well imagine thinking that
you have an idea of who you are and then
all of a sudden something comes along
and challenges that
uh it it just feels like the rug is
pulled out from underneath you all of a
sudden it felt like i didn't know how to
interact with people i didn't know how
to
exist in the world and so like really
small and mundane things like an
interaction with a barista at starbucks
provoked a ton of anxiety for me like
just everything was overwhelming
um
can you help me understand that
it's kind of i mean
i don't know how else to explain it i
mean everything i was just afraid all
the time it was fear was uh my god fear
fear was a very um
present
constantly every waking moment of the
day i was consumed with fear holy [ __ ]
dude that sounds terrible
oh yeah it was tough it was real tough
yeah
how did that start
um well back then i was
uh
i was abusing
uh marijuana like uh quite a bit
uh to the point where i you know i went
from being on the dean's list my first
semester to
almost failing out my second semester of
college uh
so it was for me at the time it was
helping me to just sort of cope with
things i was still having fun i was
still like
you know having a good time with life
and then uh after a while
marijuana would provoke uh really
intense panic attacks
i think that's what really kicked it off
like i would i would have these
conversations with myself
uh when i was high and those
conversations i didn't i didn't have any
good answers to the things that i was
asking myself and so i would invent
these horrible things about myself
to sort of explain you know why i was
having a hard time so i just i would i i
became like a bad person in my own mind
i thought i was a monster can can you um
i'm having trouble envisioning
what you were saying to yourself and
because it sounds like you were trying
to make sense of something
right you were coming your mind was
generating hypotheses
to explain your situation so can you
help us understand a little bit about
like what kind of situation would you
kind of come up with some sort of answer
for or understanding
um it's hard to go back and remember the
specifics honestly mostly it was just
nonsense like i you know
if i had a if i had a
awkward interaction with a girl or
something like that well that meant that
i was
you know forever going to be this
awkward weirdo mess and i was just
doomed to be
like that forever
and you can apply that you can imagine
applying that to all different types of
things but if i could give you like one
example that would be like one example
that i would give you of a story that i
would tell myself
to sort of try to make sense of
why i was struggling so much
it wasn't that i had gone through hard
stuff as a kid and and i was just having
difficulty sort of
unraveling all that when i was an adult
it was oh i'm just this fundamentally
bad person i'm i'm crazy i felt like i
thought i was going to lose my mind i
became convinced that i was going to
eventually just lose my mind
how did you get become convinced that
um well i mean just
if you can if you can imagine just
feeling afraid all the time and like
what that would do to your thought
process you're not really going to have
a lot of like rational thoughts when
you're in a place of
total fear
like my body was was releasing
adrenaline and cortisol as if i was
being chased by a tiger in the in the in
the you know rain forest or something
but it was like that all the time for
for no
uh
rational reason it was none of it was
rational
and did it seem rational at the time
yeah i firmly believed it yeah
oh hutch
so first of all i i really um i think
there's a lot of good that can come out
of this conversation and part of that is
because
i can tell that you've grown a lot
and and so i think what could be really
illustrative is
um
as we sort of explore
where you were and how you got to where
you are i think it could actually give
people a road map
who are like where you were maybe years
ago um but i want to ask you is there
something in particular that you kind of
wanted to talk about or anything that
that maybe i could help you with
anything you're curious about given
yeah so i i knew that you would ask this
question because i saw that you you
start these sessions by asking that same
question
and i've been sort of grappling a little
bit with uh like what i wanted to talk
about i mean i can tell you that
uh i had a sister pass away about a year
ago and i was there for
the last week of her life um i was there
like with her you know me and my family
took care of her as she was dying
and that has had a really profound
impact on me and it's sort of triggered
similar
feelings of confusion about my identity
because
when it actually happened it felt like i
was entering this
new phase of my life like it felt like i
was a different person after
that experience happened because it was
uh you know if you can and i'm sure many
people can just imagine how difficult
that would be so um that's been
something that's been
challenging for me recently and this is
something that you've talked about uh
with your therapist is aware of this
yeah okay
yeah um sure so
let me just can i think for a second
sure yeah i mean the the grief part
itself is pretty i think straightforward
at this point for me but it it that that
experience sort of relates to this other
sort of broader issue of identity
and um and and and my difficulties with
that so
i just wanted to clarify that yeah i
think i i think i i took that away from
what you said
um yeah
so
how can you can you just explain that a
little bit so
what happened to your sense of identity
when
your sister passed away
how did you start to think about
yourself
well there was a lot of guilt because uh
she was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer
at the end of 2019
uh which has a very high mortality rate
as many uh-huh many of you viewers
probably know it's 95 percent of people
that get it die
and uh
i had all these plans of going up and
they lived in the she lived in the bay
area or the rest of my family i had all
these plans of going up and spending
time with her every month and then you
know a couple months later the pandemic
started
and so i didn't get to spend a lot of
time with her um for her last year
so i feel quite a bit of guilt about
that um i wish i would have
said mortar uh during that time
okay
um and so that
has led me to feel
a lot of guilt and so that's been
something that's uh
you can you can kind of get lost in that
guilt i think so yeah
so
um
let me just so hutch i'm tempted to ask
you a question which i think will
uh
advance the conversation but i'm
concerned that it may not be
a nice question or may evoke some
negative emotion
what do you think we should do
i'm okay with being challenged that way
okay
so let me ask you this so it sounds like
your sister was diagnosed with
pancreatic cancer and you know you're
right it has a very high mortality rate
um
and so you had plans to visit her and
then the pandemic hit
and then you spent the last week with
her so i'm kind of curious what kind of
person
doesn't vis visit their terminally ill
sister with cancer
the year before they die
uh well i think that could be like a
really broad question because i think a
lot of people could have different
reasons for not doing that
in this case it was i was asked not to
come
so it wasn't like i was choosing not to
come it was she was already sick and
they were taking the pandemic very
seriously and
so was i so
so then why are they guilt
uh well
i could have picked up the phone more
um
and i didn't know what to say to her to
make
her feel better and um
and i think a part of me avoided picking
up the phone and i think that's where i
feel the most amount of guilt okay it's
not like we didn't it's not like we
didn't talk and there was also a large
stretches where she was very sick and
couldn't pick up the phone even if she
wanted to
but it's just something that i think
about there was just so much that i
wanted to say and i also didn't want to
remind her that she was dying
so i i had no idea how to
have that conversation with her
sorry
sometimes when things get really morbid
i just
i i laugh because if i don't laugh i'll
cry
um
so i know it sounds kind of weird but
what what do you say you feel guilty
about not calling her or not knowing
what to say or
uh both yeah um
i
yeah both um i wish when she was
much more lucid and much more
capable of having those phone calls i
wish i would have used the phone more i
wish i would have called her every night
um
and it and it took me going up there and
seeing her
deteriorating to
realize that i
that the mistake that i had made um
and it's uh that's just difficult to
deal with because it's so final there's
no there's no do-overs with that
can you help me understand where
identity comes into this so i'm i'm
hearing that after she passed away you
said something about
you know it's kind of related and and
you started uh
think about yourself differently
yeah so
i'm i'm very blessed at this point in my
life i have a relationship that is very
stable um we just got engaged actually
this last weekend so congratulations
thank you i mean she's just such a great
partner to me and so she's been there to
help me go through this and so
if i was alone i think
i may have fallen into old patterns of
coping
um
which is to say like very destructive
patterns
um
so
when i look at like what's happened
my
feelings of guilt around what happened
with my sister
uh
you know absent my relationship i think
that could have been like a really dark
time for me
um
where i can get to kind of like really
avoidant behavior or sometimes really
destructive destructive behavior
um
and so i guess
i guess maybe
it makes more sense to focus on just
like
in terms of our discussions how to get
through the difficulties of this life
without
shutting down or
falling into destructive
patterns of coping
well it sounds like you're doing pretty
good at that
i'm doing okay i mean
it's a struggle sometimes but i'm
actually doing much better than i used
to
which is
very good good for you man
thanks so i think if we want to talk
about avoidance you know what is it that
you
[Music]
would be avoiding
in what context so you kind of mentioned
that if it wasn't for this relationship
you're afraid you would have fallen into
avoidance behaviors
right yeah and so they avoid its
behaviors but then there's also like
what is it that you're avoiding so what
do you what what do you think you would
have tried to avoid
um i think i would have tried to avoid
the pain
just the emotional pain
and one hurts
like how does it affect my body like
physically or um
yeah i mean what sure physically
mentally
if if i go through a really difficult or
challenging
thing sometimes my anxiety can become so
overwhelming that it's difficult to
function uh it's difficult to work
especially in the kind of profession
that i do where it's like it's my job to
basically entertain people and
uh that can be difficult when you are
constantly
hurting
difficult sounds like the understatement
of the year
it's impossible yeah i've i've dipped
i've dipped from content creation a
couple different times just totally
dipped and disappeared for a little bit
yeah um yeah
so can you tell me like when you say
okay let me let me try it a different
way so you said that you were avoiding
picking up the phone
can you help me understand
what was hard about picking up the phone
um well
she had uh
she and some other people in my family
were um
they wanted to have hope that she could
uh overcome the diagnosis
and that she could be a part of that
five percent
and i operate much more
i don't know what the word i'm thinking
of is
i look at odds and i look at statistics
and i and i take them at face value
and so i began grieving basically
right when the diagnosis was given i
began
preparing for
that eventual outcome
um
but i also was conscious of the i didn't
want to bring that around her i didn't
want her to
experience that any kind of pessimism or
fatalism when it came to
accepting the the outcome or the
probable outcome
and
so that just made it
difficult for me because i didn't know
what i didn't know what to say a lot of
the time because i couldn't say anything
to make her feel better and i couldn't
take away
her pain
she had also just given birth to a
little boy like she had wanted to be her
mom her whole life
and so she had just given birth and then
it was only a couple months after the
the birth that she got the diagnosis
and so the whole story is just um
very very very sad i mean her her little
boy is is great and
it's just he's such a blessing to be
around
so we're all very grateful that she she
gave him us or she gave us him before
she left but um
it was just so overwhelmingly sad to me
that i didn't want to make her sad
either
and so i would just think about her a
lot instead of picking up the phone and
she was just constantly on my mind
so i'm hearing that you know there's
almost uh
i'm gonna use a loaded word here there's
almost like a propaganda going on right
there's a there's a sense of um
you know playing the music while the
titanic goes down
where your sister and maybe the rest of
your family were like shooting for
optimism
yeah
and and what i'm hearing was really hard
for you is that like you kind of saw the
odds and you were like
like you couldn't be optimistic in this
circumstance
but i would but i didn't fault them for
for wanting that i understood why she
would want to hang on to that absolutely
absolutely so so i and i i kind of get
you like i i think i understand your
struggle because
there you are sort of facing the reality
and there they are holding on to hope
which like makes perfect sense right and
when someone's got cancer like
you want people around you like giving
you hope you don't want people around
you
you know
and so you were kind of what i'm almost
hearing is that like you're almost
protecting her by not picking up the
phone
i don't know if i quite thought about it
that way at the time it felt when i look
back on it it feels cowardly like it
feels like i should have just powered
through and maybe even faked it
yeah so that i can understand so like
maybe maybe what you should have done is
fake it right that makes sense
um you know pick up the phone and be
falsely optimistic and like
be like a you know a cheerleader for her
um
but
and i can see that for sure at the same
time i do wonder a little bit because
what i'm sort of hearing is that
she couldn't kind of afford to have your
mentality be a part of her sphere
um i think that would have been really
difficult for her
if i you know if i would have brought
that energy into into her life yeah so i
i'm i am kind of hearing and i'm curious
what do you what do you think about that
because that that does seem quite quite
you know
brotherly to me to sort of recognize
that you're in a dark place and and
you're seeing these like negative odds
and like you don't want to expose your
sister to that because
you know
heaven knows she's got enough to deal
with
yeah
that's an actor accurate
characterization i think yeah yeah and
what do you what do you think about it
when i sort of say it like that
i still beat myself up i mean the louder
voice is saying just you should have
just faked it you should have just
picked up the call and faked infected
and
yeah
um i think that makes a lot of sense
what else is that voice saying
um i just miss her
i told myself i wasn't gonna cry by the
way
okay we
are
crying um yeah a little bit
i just miss her a lot
i miss her a lot
that doesn't sound to me like the same
voice that is calling you a coward
well there's a lot of voices fighting up
there sometimes yep
so i i mean do you think the one that
so here's what i'm envisioning there's a
there's a toxic voice in there right
we're gonna call it toxic but there's
maybe there's a part of you that tells
you i'm not really toxic i'm just real
i'm the reality of it
yeah and and it's kind of saying you
know like you should have manned up you
should have like you know put on a
bright face you should have been
optimistic
if that voice is really really
devastating it may even say maybe if you
had done that things would have been
different today does it ever say those
kinds of things
no
okay i'm happy to hear that
yeah um
and so you feel
he's mentioned cowardly and i think
that's a good word because it implies
like an identity
right like sadness is not an identity
cowardly is an identity you see that
yeah
and so what do you what do you kind of
i'm going to ask a question i asked
before but just modify it a little bit
what kind of person doesn't put on a
brave face for their sister dying of
cancer
someone who's selfish
um
somebody who
can't put the needs of somebody else uh
ahead of their own
and a time that calls for it the most
um
i think selfish selfishness is more
a more accurate description of
that toxic voice
uh than
cowardly i think
although i think maybe they can be a
little intertwined
yeah
um uh yeah i can sort of see that
i can see how those two are intertwined
in the sense that
you know you weren't able to
put her first right and the reason you
weren't able to put her first is because
you couldn't tolerate
being falsely optimistic
yeah i mean also just just generally on
top of the fact that it was difficult it
was just a difficult difficult situation
it was a difficult thing to process
you know
to go from having your sister who wanted
to be a mom her whole life having a kid
for the first time and she you know
she was a great mom and she would have
been a
incredible mom
i think
that was like her calling i think she
she wanted kids since she was a kid
um and we used to kind of tease her for
that
like a playful teasing but um
so to to have this blessing of a child
and then
one one or two months later get this
horrible diagnosis that was uh
pretty incredibly powerful 180.
um time just kind of stopped i think
when i when i got that when i got the
call from my mom to let me know that she
had the diagnosis
i felt like everything just kind of
slowed down and got quiet
i
felt like i was entering this new
part of my life
can you tell me about that part of your
life
what were you entering into
um
i was entering a world without her
uh for the first time in my life and um
that bothers me
oh boy that sounds like a shitty world
i don't even never even met the woman
and i
i mean i didn't make a promise not to
cry so i get to cry you can cry if you
want to
i'm gonna grab it i have one
uh she was a wonderful sister so i mean
it was it was a devastating loss
yeah that much is clear
yeah on on both accounts
can i ask you something hutch did you
yeah i mean so it sounds like you wanted
to talk to her more
um
but it sounds like you talked to her
some like while she was lucid
a little bit yeah
went up there and
yeah
well we went up there a couple uh i went
up there with us me a couple i mean um
esme is my fiance so she came up with me
one time when we did uh we did like a
the most kobut friendly
visit that we could do it was all
outside and
uh you know we didn't we stayed at a
hotel and you know we didn't we didn't
do hugs um
which is also like really difficult yeah
i was gonna say that sounds hard to go
through an experience like that and not
have the the freedom to hug
hug her put her on your arm like
everything in me wanted to just comfort
her in that way so that i mean
kobe really made the whole situation
like a lot worse um
so i did i did spend some time with her
uh and i did call her
a few times and i texted her
um and then of course i was there for
at the end but
she wasn't super lucid by the end a
little bit and then the last couple days
not at all
did you ever share with her your
kind of negativity
no
no she
she i never told her that i felt
i never told her that i thought she was
gonna probably gonna die no
do you think she picked up on it anyway
i don't think so
i i hope not i don't i don't think so
though
but it it's a
you start to think about your own death
too
um
the finality of death is
terrifying to me now in a way that it
you know i was always kind of afraid of
death but i think i'm even more afraid
of death now
and i don't have the benefit of uh
religious faith to
help me
cope with that fear
um
can you help me understand what what
makes you afraid of death
i just i think we live in a on a very
beautiful planet at a really
crucially important and interesting time
in terms of like the
path of human development and um
i feel very blessed in the life that i
have i feel very blessed to be born when
i was
on this planet to be able to witness
everything i mean it can be a [ __ ] show
out there a lot of the times but
and especially here in these states oh
boy but um
it's still a beautiful world that we
live in and the the idea that you know
when i die
you know
you know probably never going to see it
again if if reincarnation is real i'd
probably end up on another planet as an
amiibo or something uh
so that that thought is very sad to me
to to not be able to
see how the rest of the story plays out
and to
spend time with the people that i care
about here and
it's just horrifying it's a horrifying
thought
so
i'm tempted
to teach
okay um
i i don't know if it's appropriate or
not but
so especially i think because you it's
clear to me you've done a lot of work
um you have a therapist
so
you know
i just want to share some thoughts if
that's okay i mean i can ask you more
questions if you like but i'm really i'd
like to share some thoughts and really
see what you kind of think about them
i'd be happy to listen for a while
um
yeah maybe give you a bit of a break
so
man where do i can i have a second to
kind of
yeah of course
i think the challenge here is i don't i
don't know
how much of what i'm going to say is
going to make sense but
i don't know we'll try to figure out so
let's just talk
so you had a sense
of who you were growing up and i i think
that what i'm sort of hearing is that
who you are has not really been set set
in stone and is fluctuated and maybe
actually it was kind of always down
there
but depending on how turbulent the
surface of the water is you weren't able
to really connect with who you were
and that you've
done i think that's a really good way of
putting it yeah
and over time you know as you've gotten
knocked about by the waves you've sort
of figured out the hard way
who you are
you know it was either get swept away or
find that anchor you know that that core
of who you are
and that you've done a lot of positive
growth in that direction
yeah i think that i had to think about
that but yeah i think that's that's
somewhat accurate yeah
so i think when your sister gets
diagnosed with cancer you know it throws
it throws your world into confusion
right like so the world like operated
based on certain principles like i'm
here like my my sister
is meant to be a mother her entire
that's what she's put on this earth to
do
and now she's got a kid and and this is
like you know we're figuring things out
um you know i'm dating someone things
are kind of going well like this is the
way that life is supposed to be like had
some bumpy patches a lot to be grateful
for you know some struggles but like
things are sort of sorting themselves
out
and you were feeling good about yourself
yeah i was on a hot streak yeah a good
point in my life
and then you know that the diagnosis
hits
and then you know tragedy hits with it
um
you found yourself not being able to
delude yourself
into thinking she would make it
uh you started judging yourself for
not being able to lie
to someone that you cared about
um i know that's not the way that you
think about it i saw the way that you
looked there for a second but let's be
on and this is where the teaching kind
of comes in
what we're talking about is lying
we don't really think about it that way
and this is sort of where the teaching
kind of comes in is
um
you know i've worked with a lot of
people who have cancer and a lot of
people are you know
terminally ill with cancer because i'm a
psychiatrist and
i trained at a general hospital which
means a lot of my work is not with
psychiatric patients it's actually
you know there was something like 23
beds out of 960 that are for psychiatric
patients
and the other
940 so some odd beds are for people who
are hospitalized for medical conditions
the cancer award was quite big
so a lot of the work that i did was on
the cancer awards
and
you know i
i don't know if this is going to make
you feel better or worse because i can
see your mind interpreting it kind of
both ways
but i think one of the most terrifying
things for a cancer patient
is
everyone around them is being hopeful
and they [ __ ] know the odds
right they're the patient a doctor is
gonna explain to them
but since everyone around them is being
hopeful
they can't show the abject terror that
they feel inside
because no one is there who like
like you know she can't
break down and cry in front of her mom
or her kid or you know the dad or you
know like she can't afford to do that
because
we're all like in this play right like
we're like acting it out and we're gonna
hope because everyone tells people with
cancer like you gotta hope
right we place like a moral judgment on
the right way to behave when faced with
a terminal illness
and so
you know my experience with with those
people is that the best thing that i
could offer them was not hope
but a place where
they didn't have to be hopeless alone
because like hopelessness is one thing
and i think it's something you
understand because it sounds like
you kind of did this
being hopeless is one thing being
hopeless alone is entirely something
else
yeah
and there's a part of me and i don't
want you to beat yourself up for this
but you know there's a part of me that
wants to say that
you know
i don't know i'm just gonna say it
because i it's i think it's authentic
that like what you had to offer your
sister wasn't
a mistake
that like the way that you felt about
her like if everyone else is pretending
that the five percent is gonna roll like
you don't think
that she is
unbeli unbelievably terrified that the
dice are not going to go her way
no she told me she told me as much
yeah oh so i'm really happy to hear that
because i i wonder you know why she told
you
i asked her if she was afraid
and she told me that she told me the
truth
so so oh thank god because here i was i
was afraid because i think that's the
right move honestly and i was afraid
that i was gonna replace one kind of
guilt with another but now i actually
feel really good
because i think that's the kind of
question that people who are offering
someone false hope or not
they can't ask
you get that
like we can't ask her if she's afraid
but if there's if there's one thing that
reassures me that you are a good brother
to her it's actually asking that
question
because she gets to share that right
because like when you ask her that
question like those thoughts are there
man she's living with them day in and
day out just like you lived with a day
in a day out
right she's thinking about what's gonna
happen to her son like she's thinking
about all that [ __ ]
and she's
keeping it inside
and there you are terrified right so you
ask like you're not like hey i'm afraid
that everything's gonna go to [ __ ]
and you're gonna die like you're not
dumping it on her
what you're really doing now
my water works really going
um just because i'm thinking about it
but like i think that
that's the most important question that
you could have asked her it's the most
important thing you could have said
and what did she say when you asked her
i think i'll keep that between her and
me sure
but she was
she was afraid
yeah
i think the important thing
fair enough i'm glad you drew that
boundary by the way um
but i cannot in the purpose of teaching
hutch i can tell you as is someone who
professionally works with terminally ill
people
that question is the most therapeutic
and supportive question you can ask
when someone is facing death pretending
it's not coming
helps
i mean don't get me wrong
but it's like insufficient man
having her brother understand and be
willing to listen
right like
because it sounds like she answered your
question and like you listen we don't
have to go into it but i'm hearing that
you know you gave her a door to walk
through and she needed to walk through
it
well i told her i was scared too and i
and i don't remember if the conversation
went too much further after that other
and and i feel like
there's a part of me that that wishes i
would have
said more than that um but i asked her
she was afraid she said yes i said i am
too and um
it felt like a moment of honesty and but
but i didn't want
i i i could tell she was really
struggling with that with that fear and
um
especially with her her mom instincts uh
she want she wanted to be there for for
her boy um
and
i put myself in her shoes and just
imagine how devastating that must have
been
i think maybe i'm angry that there was
just nothing
i could say to make her feel better
um
and i wish that there was
something i it just
i think it's a natural instinct to to go
back and scrutinize like the way that
you behaved and like look for ways you
could have done it better or whatever
i think that's a very human thing to do
um
but it
it's difficult to grapple with sometimes
when i when i think about that question
like what could i have said or what
could i have done differently
and um
yeah it's been it's been very
challenging
so hutch i don't know if you're gonna be
able to hear or receive this
um
but
and i i never met your sister i'm not
omniscient
i've spent
the better part of 16 years of my life
trying to figure out how to help other
human beings
and i think i've figured some of it out
and every instinct of everything that
i've learned
leads me to conclude that what you said
in that moment
helped immensely
now i'm not saying you couldn't have
said more
but i think there's also something that
we i think this is a mistake on
our part we sometimes believe as a
society that saying more is worth more
yeah
one moment of honesty
in
one moment of because like i don't
especially between like brothers and
sisters like you don't need to say a
whole lot
right
yeah
like i remember when i got engaged
um you know my dad
was like i'm not sure she's the one for
you
but if you really like if this is the
one that you want i'm behind you and
that was it it was like one sentence
it's all i needed to hear
there wasn't a long discussion about
whether she was the one or wasn't the
one or whatever like
it was just like one sentence
but
it means
it was enough
and that would that actually meant
something to you that was that was a you
you you took that as a
a kind gesture
yeah so i can give you more examples
if you want
yeah so the day i got so i i struggled
to get into medical school for three
years i i really didn't much like
yourself i kind of didn't do great in
college except i wasn't even dean's list
the first semester it was
f straight out of the gate
and so for years you know i started
medical school at the age of 27 or 28
and so there was a gap there between
like undergrad for like five years
where you know i wasn't really
accomplishing much and my dad was always
like pretty supportive you know he
didn't seem like disappointed in me or
anything like that but
um and i was terrified right because
like he's not gonna say hey you're
[ __ ] for life like he never said that
um but i was like i'm [ __ ] for life
it's like 25 years old no job no money
no you know i'm not going anywhere who
and so the day i got into medical school
um
you know i still remember now i'm gonna
get emotional because he passed away uh
soon after i got into medical school but
you know he told me that like now that
you've gotten and he was crying and he
said nothing is gonna hold you back
and that's all he said he was like now
that you've gotten your break like
nothing is gonna hold you back
and it was like
it was honesty and like i realized in
that moment that he was like terrified
just like i was
you know and that like i mean
he never showed it to me
until that moment because he you know
everything was going to be fine then
presumably and he was right
you know i don't think i've been held
back by much and and
but
you know a few words are like they can
be transformative
my my mom she went when she called me to
let me know that um
it was time to come up there and
her time was limited
one of the reasons why she wanted me to
come up there was you know if there's
anything that you want to say to her in
person then then this would be the time
to do it
and i really really struggled with
figuring out what i wanted to say
because i could say something that was
five pages long
uh with all the memories that we have
and and all the different myriad ways
that she positively impacted my life
but i couldn't organize my thoughts all
that much beyond just
um thinking about how much
gratitude i had that she was my big
sister
and i ended up just that was all i
that was the thing that i said to her i
just asked her you know do you know how
much i love being your little brother
she kind of jokingly said well now i do
like even towards even towards the end
she was trying to like make us laugh a
little bit and um
but i think
maybe that was enough like maybe that
was enough of of like
telling her what i wanted what i wanted
to you know say
um
and maybe it wasn't but
but yeah
there's no manual for this there's no
you know there's no there's there's no
book to tell you what to do in these
situations and
you just
do your best
uh
you just show up and do your best and
that's what i tried to do um
i'd like to be able to look back on that
on that on that time that with
some degree of acceptance and i think
that's what i'm struggling with is sure
accepting that it happened the way that
it did
what would have been enough hutch
what does enough look like
i genuinely have
no concept of i have no idea
you know why
because it's not a real thing
so now we get to the weird part okay
enough is an abstraction of the mind
okay let
i may have to explain myself here
so you have an id
so we have an identity
right like we have this like
identity that kind of
sets standards for ourselves
but like
there is no such thing as enough
there's only what is
like the only thing that exists is what
you said what does it mean if there's
enough how do we measure that right like
let's be really precise here because i
think that idea of enough
is born out of your guilt
the two are intrinsically tied
and you want to hold on to your guilt
like your guilt is like sure there's a
part of you that wants to let it go but
there's something about
not being enough for her which got
it's hard to describe but like you know
i think the reason that
you know guilt doesn't hold on to us
like we hold on to it
what possible reason would i have to
want to hold on to guilt like what
psychological need would that be
fulfilling because of your sense of
identity right so if we look at why do
people hold on to negative ideas
it's because of who they believe they
are
so what does that say about my sense of
identity then
i'd say that there's an echo left over
from your hard times which as you
mentioned has resurfaced
because i think that you what like what
would enough been for like it's
ridiculous
you want to do enough for your sister
that doesn't doing enough for your
sister doesn't
doing enough for your sister starts the
moment she dies
that's not the end of doing enough for
your sister she's got a kid you have a
nephew
she's not going to be able to take care
of him you want to do enough do enough
why that
it starts now buddy
forget it like i mean not don't forget
about her that sounds mean but like
seriously like
you're you're like you're thinking about
the wrong thing
like this is just starting
and the more that you get caught up in
like doing enough i mean i think you did
enough i mean she was it sounds like you
guys had a close relationship sounds
like she felt loved
you know
she was joking at the end but don't
confuse
humor
for the real feelings underneath
and that's just all be like i mean what
could you like it's the pandemic you
showed up when you could you said what
you were capable of
could you have said more yes but this is
also where you have to like meet
yourself where you're at
right you can't expect yourself in the
third grade and know what you know now
about your identity
all that exists were you enough back
then in the third grade
i think it's like you said i just was
what i was
exactly and so when did that change
were you
enough in the fourth grade sure
enough in the fifth grade sure and
somewhere along the way something
happens and you start becoming not
enough
it's idiocy
it's ahamkada it's ego
go ahead you wanna say something
um that's that's
uh uh that feeling of not being enough
that's all i remember i i don't have a
time in my life where i felt like i was
enough so
yeah
so
this is where the teaching comes in so
this is where the feeling has existed
it's just looking for a particular way
to like thing to latch onto does that
make sense
yeah
and boy is losing your sister a really
easy thing for it to latch on to
being enough has nothing to do with her
it has everything to do with you
and if you tell me that you've had the
feeling of not being enough forever well
yeah
right that should give you evidence that
you didn't do anything wrong by your
sister
it's just there's something about your
identity it's something that you carry
with you
that makes you feel like you're you're
not enough and if you pay attention and
you go back and we ask you lots of
different stories about your upbringing
we can come up with a time in fourth
grade when you didn't feel like you were
enough and then your jokes weren't funny
enough and then you became a content
creator and you made good content and
the next week you made content that
didn't have as many views and then you
weren't goody enough
and then you start dating this girl and
you were racked with insecurity because
you don't know if you were enough
and then over time you grew that you'd
realize that was bs and then you asked
her to marry you and now you're gonna
get married
we can see the enoughness the lack of oh
i'm not enough i'm not enough
but in any of those individual
situations were you ever not enough for
your fiance no bro you've been you
you've been great do you need to grow
sure are you gonna continue to grow
absolutely
you'd have to ask her
you ask her for me see what she says
i think i know the answer yeah i think i
do too
and so
not being enough is part of your it's
part of what you carry
and it's just really really hard because
it's like really easy
for that insecurity to latch on to i
didn't say enough for my
my sister
it was like what the [ __ ] does enough
even me like what are you gonna
like
like what could you possibly say
that will
just think about the tragedy of her
being a newborn you know having a
newborn son and then dying of cancer
like what are you gonna say like how
you're not gonna make a dent in that
you can only say what you can say
right and i think you actually did jen
you honestly like my professional
opinion is that like you offered her
something really really important
which is
someone to be afraid with which when the
end is coming
like
people don't want to put on a brave face
it's false it's a lie
so i think that authenticity and if we
think about even like what i do on
stream and stuff like we don't pull
punches like am i making you feel bad
because we're both crying
like does it hurt to have this
conversation of course i never met the
girl i feel devastated
right i have my own grief
does it mean it's bad that we should
retreat away from this
does it mean that it's bad that we
should retreat away from the feeling of
grief you mean
all of it all the negativity
you know my point is that like
being someone that you can say like are
you afraid and she says yes and then you
saying i am too like that's huge bro
like objectively
you can go ask a hundred grief
counselors what they think about the
value of that but like generally
speaking when we get trained to you know
deal with people in grief like we get
trained not to tell them hey
everything's gonna be okay what they
actually train us to do is like help
them be with them in the negativity
so i'm pretty sure yeah
it seems very counterintuitive because
you your instinct is to protect them
from that feeling yes protect him from
that feeling of uh
sadness and fear but you're not going to
protect him from [ __ ] dude your your
sister knows
you can't
you know and that's why like for example
when i work with people who are suicidal
i will say very counterintuitive things
so when someone's suicidal and i say
cheer up you have so much left to live
for
how do you think that makes a suicidal
person feel
i'd probably roll my eyes at you if you
said that to me if i was in a suicidal
place exactly
isolated
alone
makes the suicidality worse
instead saying hey help me understand
why life isn't worth living wow that
sounds awful it sounds like you don't
have a lot left to live for
right you don't want to leave them alone
and then once you're with them once
they're not alone then you can start
moving forward
right then i can say hey i understand
why you feel that way
i'm having trouble being hopeless when i
listen to you
everything you're saying is correct
but i still have hope in spite of that
what do you think about that
so authenticity and honesty is like
the basis of human emotional support
yeah
so
i i mean i i know i kind of bounced
around but i i think kind of going back
this idea if you felt
if you felt like you've never been
enough like that's what you need to work
on but that doesn't have to do with her
right and i met what i say earlier in
terms of like if she passed away like
enough doesn't start with her end with
her death that starts with her death
so how do you even begin to
start challenging a voice that's as loud
and ingrained
as the one that i'm describing that says
that i'm
not enough i can't think of that is the
loudest voice in my i'm a content
creator we're all
insecure [ __ ] lunatics we're all
messes uh
self-esteem comes from like metrics and
stuff like that it's just so
yeah
it's a beautiful question and your
answer is right there
you don't challenge it
you accept it
so there's a part of you
that feels like you're not enough and
how do you treat that part of you
uh like it's an authority
okay
so
not the answer i was looking
it's not a belief it's like a it's a
conviction it's not i wonder if i'm not
enough it's
so i may have to change my answer
um
but i'm going to share what i wanted to
share with you anyway so
the thing is you're trying to get rid of
it
right
it would make my life a lot easier i
think
so i think that's why it's not going
away
so when there's a part of ourselves
so i would say that how do you start
challenging something like that you if
you want to get rid of it the way that
you
do that
is not by challenging it by actually
accepting it
so
there's a big difference between arguing
with yourself when you say i am not
enough and arguing with yourself and
saying no i am enough and then you guys
fight in your mind
no peace will come from that i'm sure
you've tried it a thousand times
no peace comes from fighting against
yourself a house divided itself against
itself cannot stand
you can't think your way out of that
kind of thing you can't
so what you can do is say i'm not enough
and that's okay
and then you just live your life and put
one foot in front of the other
sort of
it's harder than i'm making it sound
which i'm hearing the skepticism in your
voice
no that wasn't skepticism actually
i i understand that to a certain degree
so so it's it's to understand that that
feeling of not being enough was not
something that
is random
you were taught that
right how does a child you think about
your nephew does your nephew think he's
enough
oh yeah he fights he plays with blocks
he's having a great time yeah
and so like if you think about it how
does a child like that start to believe
that they're not enough because someone
teaches it to
them they learn it
so what you need to understand is that
somewhere within you like there's
something that you learned
right because it's such a strong belief
like it's not
you know i i don't know that there's
like a not enough circuit in your brain
i mean there sort of is but it's neither
here nor there
but i think that what it comes down to
is somewhere along the way like you felt
like you were not enough and now what
happens is there's a part of you that's
telling you you're not enough and what
are you doing you're pushing it away
right
you're telling it you're not good enough
you need to stop telling me that i'm not
good enough you see that it's like
cyclic
i know it's kind of getting abstract but
you were so there's a part of you that's
telling you
that is not being accepting towards
yourself that's telling you to do better
and what are you telling your mind you
need to do better you need to start
telling me i'm enough [ __ ] you do better
toxic part of my mind get the hell out
of here
i i typically don't have that kind of a
self-dialogue though it's it's uh it's
more of a
yeah i'm not enough okay and then i just
either make a joke of it or cope in some
other way yeah so i don't i'm
using a little bit of hyperbole with my
dialogue i don't think you respond to it
that way but i do think that that's a
shade of not acceptance so i think
you've learned how to cope with it
that's what i'm really hearing is you've
heard you've learned healthy coping
mechanisms in response to that voice but
you haven't figured out how to uproot
the voice
well if i do what would that make me
though because like one of the reasons i
you know i can be kind of funny like
i just you know some people are a lot
more funny than me but i can be kind of
a funny guy
and that is one of the ways that i dealt
with
feelings of
inadequacy it was just turning
everything into a joke
um
so if i were to uproot that
part of me that tells me that i'm not
enough i have concerns about
my long-term financial well-being what
if i'm no longer funny like what if i'm
no longer interesting or entertaining
and now we understand why it stays
because you're afraid of what would
happen to you if it goes
so do you want to change that part of
yourself
yeah there we go
right
so this is the really confusing thing
when i you asked me earlier why would
someone want to hold on to their guilt
why the [ __ ] would someone want to hold
on to the toxic voice in their head
that's telling them that they're not
enough now
you have the answer
so understand that everything in your
mind so like this is kind of cool like
if you don't believe in any religions or
spirituality or stuff like that let's
assume biology for a second or maybe you
do i don't know
i'm
i'm i
i
think that there is
something much much bigger than me and i
choose not to try to define it so i'm
open to i'm not i don't get offended by
other people's religious beliefs yeah
right i was just anyway that was an
interesting aside we can talk about that
in a second but let's let's talk about
so your mind like you have neurons right
and neurons like have like action
potentials and they fire and they calm
down and they depolarize and they move
sodium and potassium like there's like
science and biology and chemistry and
biochemistry in physics that governs
everything in your brain
and your brain has evolved
this is kind of weird just think about
this for a second your brain has evolved
with the ability to be anxious with the
ability to be afraid with the ability to
feel guilty
why the hell does do our brains
have the capability like why aren't we
just happy all the time we could have
evolved that way
why does your brain torture you like
this is a system that was designed to
produce this right
and so what people don't understand is
that all emotions
have evolutionary benefit all emotions
have value all emotions have function if
they didn't have function it wouldn't
have evolved
yeah okay you know
so it's kind of interesting because
even this idea of not being enough what
i'm hearing is that it propels you you
use it
and so what would happen if it went away
you're afraid that you wouldn't be funny
anymore that's what i'm hearing
not just that though i'm afraid of a
cascading series of just
mental collapse just not just like how i
am in my job but like what kind of a
boyfriend would i be what kind of a
friend would i be what kind of a general
person would i be and that's question
that question mark is what scares me the
the unknown of
letting that go i don't think it's an
unknown bro
you remember what it was like before you
learned how to crack a joke in the
second grade
uh yeah
that's what you'd go back to
because how did you get
well i'm not trying to regress into like
a
seven year old
exactly which is why you're not gonna
let go of your your fuel for jokes
you see that
because you learned how to be funny and
you learn how to get people to like you
and where does the fuel from your jokes
come from the sense of inadequacy
pain
pain you're damn right traumatic pain
yes yeah and so who would you be without
your pain
so now we come back to identity you'd be
who you are
i'm just afraid that i wouldn't be
interesting at that point
yep
but you will be don't worry about that
i mean you are worried about that which
is okay so we have to meet you where
you're at and let yourself be afraid
so i know it's kind of weird but like
you're afraid that people won't like you
if you get better
right that you won't be funny
that there will be a collapse
you know there's there's i'm of two
minds on that because i have
you should have seen me
like 12 years ago doc because i was
i was a [ __ ] mess like and and you
could see it i wore it on my face like
if you tuned into my videos
like people used to leave comments like
are you okay
like how i looked physically because i
wasn't taking care of myself and um
and and since that point i have gotten
better i've gotten healthier i've i've
progressed and i have my own like little
community on on twitch here and
they see that and they comment about
that and they give me you know praise
for that and it and it feels good to
to know that
i mean i already know that i i've gotten
better but to to to have other people
see that happening is is validating to
me
um and so it matters on that level
sure so i do i do i do recognize that
like that
it's it's sort of a
it's sort of a
false expectation that people would no
longer be interested in in who i am or
my content or whatever if i were to get
better there's a problem that recognizes
that that that's that's false how
interesting
right but i said well i still grapple
with it it's like i'm with you so
most of what keeps us stuck so this is
another common misconception when we get
stuck we think that we don't know what
to do or that we lack motivation
but most of the time what keeps us stuck
is conflict
because there's the doubt
right there's like and it's it's been
fascinating to talk to you bro because
it's clear to me that you've done an
immense amount of work
so what i see is someone who's like
halfway there or even well past halfway
it's like 75 80 percent
and yeah i know it's it's shocking
shocking
but i i think that's really the issue
right is is like so and what's happening
is
what these people are teaching you and i
know it's kind of weird but i think
twitch is doing a lot of good in the
world but what they're teaching you is
that oh you're not like a screwed up
degenerate that used to be kind of funny
and we accept you anyway
right we can be proud of how far you've
come
well chat roasts me harder than anybody
else on the internet but
they do it
out of kindness i think exactly so
that's also where like they say they
roast you right but they also like
they do it
it's kind of like i i run a group for
esports professionals and one of them
got a girlfriend
and the funniest thing was
man they would not leave him alone
they were like
his teammates were roasting him for it
uh not just his teammates it's like kind
of a more open group for esports
everyone was roasting him they just
could not stop giving him [ __ ]
and so i was like what are and if you
look at everyone's smiling right
okay and i was like asking people i was
like why you know what are we doing here
like i asked the person like how do you
feel everyone's giving you [ __ ]
and he's like i kind of feel like
embarrassed but i sort of feel good and
we ask everyone else like how do y'all
feel and we're like we all feel good
we're also smiling right and it's like
what we're actually doing this is the
way that men communicate their approval
yeah
right yeah
it's the negative expression of a
positive affection
yeah that pisses me off sometimes i like
like i buy into that [ __ ] a lot good
because i just i'm programmed to do that
but sometimes i really get bothered by
the fact that
guys it's hard for it's hard for a lot
of men
and i think that's getting better which
is it gives me a sign it's a sign of um
it's a sign that you should be
optimistic about where things are headed
everybody talks about how everybody's
becoming such sensitive babies these
days it's all [ __ ] because i think
it's a good thing that that men are
starting to feel more
safe to express those emotions but yeah
it does bother me sometimes i wish
people i wish
friends could just simply just say like
i'm [ __ ] proud of you you did a good
thing that's so great without having to
wrap it into some sarcastic
yeah you know [ __ ] whatever i mean
20 years ago if we were crying the way
that we were 20 you know maybe half an
hour ago we'd have to toss out no homos
right yeah people yeah people would be
like you know people can see you right
like this is live and they can actually
see you crying yeah
and we were crying and what are we doing
now hutch
we're smiling yeah
yeah right so i if that bothers you i
want to actually commend you
because you coming on here and
expressing your emotions
is going to be rewiring the neurons of
every person who's watching they're
going to be learning
right that it's actually okay to express
myself
that i don't have to rap
i sure hope so yeah and i think that's
what you're doing with your podcast too
i think you're showing people that it's
okay to struggle
yeah that's the goal yeah
kind of
did you um i wanted to kind of go back
to this conflict for a second
which conflict so just the not enough
business
um yeah
i just want to kind of tie that up if
you have other questions um that's fine
but
uh you know so here's what i sort of
understand there's a part of you that's
felt like for a long time
you haven't felt like you
it's enough did you kind of get what i
was saying that
that
how can i say this so sometimes we have
these things in our minds that are
looking for excuses
so the best example i can come up with
is i i had a i'd have a patient who had
been
cheated on
by someone they cared about a lot
um they found out like just before they
got married and so they called the
wedding off quite traumatized for it and
then their
afterward their mind would like look for
reasons
why their future partners would be
cheating on them they were like paranoid
for it does that make sense yeah and and
so what happens is in our mind once we
have a belief about ourselves like i'm
not worthy enough like i'm like she
started to think really negatively about
herself right because when you get
cheated on you feel like you did
something wrong you could blame the
other person
but you also feel like there's something
fundamentally wrong with you and so any
sign in the external world for her
internal psychological complex she'd
like latch on to
okay yeah i see right and so that's just
how the mind works like once i have a
belief about something you can see this
in politics because you know i know you
do some political content now like
people who have a political belief will
sift information to reinforce whatever
they believe
so it's just a function of the brain
it's a function of our psychology and if
you have this thing in in you this
authoritative voice that tells you i'm
not enough
it's gonna find whatever it needs to
from time to time depending on your
emotional state like if you're feeling
good about yourself the voice will be
quiet but if you ever start getting into
a dark place it'll reactivate and it'll
find reasons
and boy the death of your sister is just
a juice like how on earth are you gonna
fight against its authority there it's
not even a contest
and no wonder you say yes sir when it
says something to you now because it's
playing the trump card you didn't call
her enough
you know
yeah
it
and
as that part of you so how do you deal
with that one is i'm seeing that you're
starting to deal with it already because
you're starting to recognize oh like i
used to be this degenerate on on youtube
and now i've like cleaned myself up and
people are like
they're like
good job
right
and so you can and but there's there's
still that conflict and then there's
also these other confusing things that
you have about you know if i really fix
myself if i get to be like completely
normal like what if people don't think
i'm funny because so much of our
humor comes from pain
and this is where i'd reassure you hutch
just because you feel better about
yourself doesn't mean you're going to
lose access to that
you'll know what it feels like to be in
pain you'll be able to you know it's an
old friend
you don't need a gps to navigate that
road anymore
like you know it by heart
and it's
going i wanted to ask you a question um
yeah is the problem of identity of
people not having a strong sense of who
they are is this a common
thing that's out there
i mean it's just something that i i've
struggled with
in such a
pronounced way for my whole life
and i see some people
obviously i don't have access to like
every detail of their lives but they
seem so comfortable in their own skin
and
i feel like an alien a lot of the times
just wondering how common that is
yeah so it's a universal human condition
and it's getting worse
so if you look at like you know the
sense of who you are as a person we
talked a little bit about how not being
enough like that's not a real thing
like literally it's not a scientific
thing it's a construction of the mind
you are what you are and the more that
you begin to realize that the more
comfortable you'll be in your own skin
because he can't be any different
is it again is it getting worse because
of social media and the students
yeah yes
absolutely
and why would you ask about social media
what's your hypothesis there
oh i mean i just spend way
way too much time on twitter sometimes
like
way too much time and um it's gotten
better but i still have days where i'll
be on twitter interacting with people
for like eight hours
and i feel like absolute [ __ ] at the end
of it
and then i wake up the next day and
maybe do it again like it's it's it's
like uh sort of like alcoholism in that
yeah absolutely
so let's talk about that for a second
and then we'll talk about you and why
it's been hard for you and what that
means for your garma
okay so
yep oh yeah we're gonna go off the rails
now you ready okay i'm down
so hutch the first thing to understand
is that there's a self you remember how
he's talking about there's turbulent
stuff at the top and then there's you
down below
yep so the buddha called that the buddha
buddhism
he called that the self
the interesting thing is if you look at
ask these like yogi's from thousands of
years ago
what is the self the answer they came up
with was neti neti and neti means not
this
so if you ask someone if you ask these
yogis what is the self is it
a person they'll say
it's not that
is it
a cosmic thing they'll say it's not that
is it black not that is it white not
that
is it conscious they'll say no is it
unconscious no
they the self is formless
and so i know it sounds kind of weird
but we'll ask you to do this in a second
you know i'll ask you to like meditate
so like close your eyes and notice that
there's like an experiencer we'll go
through this more formally in a second
okay
but like there is a thing no not right
now
there's a thing that experiences all of
your life
so the experiences can be separated
there's happiness and sadness but who is
the person who is experiencing the
happiness or sadness
it kind of goes like one level like
deeper into the matrix
and what they sort of realized is they
followed the the matrix all the way back
to its source and what they found was
the self
so then what they sort of discovered is
that that thing is formless and we'll
we'll show you how to get there in a
second sort of or take one step
then what they realized is that we also
have an identity but the identity and
the self are two different things so the
identity is what they call the ahamgara
or the ego
and the identity is anything about you
it is not you it is anything about you
so anything you can put down on a piece
of paper
is part of your ego but it's not really
who you are
so for example i call you hutch
is that your name
well sure i mean my first name is sean
but people call you hutch
yeah people call you sean
which one is you
i think they're both me
how does that work
i don't know i didn't think about it
that much i just answered reflexively
yeah it's weird right so like i would
say that those things are both you and
neither of them are you
right if i like
you know does your nephew know that your
name is sean
i don't know he's very very young so i i
don't i don't know if he knows my name
quite yet the answer is probably no but
does he know who you are
yeah
how's that possible
um because this little tiny human brain
is
forming memories
sure right so there's something going on
there but name isn't a part of it
so if you think about who am i
if you ask me who am i i'm going to say
my name i'm all look like the first
thing that we answer with is actually
false it's not who we are it's just
something that we attach to ourselves
anything that you put on a resume is not
who you are it's part of your identity
for sure but it's not part of the self
and so the fundamental confusion that we
have is we start to identify with our
identity which we can't really blame
ourselves for right because when i think
about like if i start to think of myself
as like i'm a doctor and i
attach myself to that identity or i
think of to myself as i'm someone who
applied to medical school three times in
a row and failed to get in
that's all part of identity it's all
things that i can put on my resume it's
like people can ask me about it but it's
not who i am
right it's just attributes of my life
and that's where our suffering comes
from because when i start to attach
myself of being a doctor i can become
prideful which is going to be a source
of suffering because once i have pride
there are doctors who are better than i
am why don't i get
respected as much as other people do
you know they're doctors on tick tock
who have more followers than i do
so any kind of seemingly positive thing
that comes out of identity actually
brings suffering with it and then what
if i lose my medical license then
suffering comes with it
so all of the attributes
of our of our identity are the cause of
our suffering that's what with the would
say and that the closer that you get to
who you are
and you sort of remember this right
because you had this fluctuating
identity didn't matter what the [ __ ] it
was like it could have been whatever it
still sucked
until you got the hell away from all of
it
and i would venture that i don't know if
you've ever put your nephew to sleep but
if you've ever put your nephew to sleep
if you haven't you should try it
sometime you know hopefully
he lives all the way up in the bay area
so i don't get to see him as much so
maybe one day you'll have kids and then
you'll understand this when you put your
kid to sleep like there's no hutch
there's no content creator there's no
or maybe you've got a fiance right so i
don't know if you've like ever fallen
asleep with your fiance or she's ever
fallen asleep and you just like laid in
bed with her and in that moment like
you're not you don't have a beard
you don't have a certain hair color
you're not like a particular height you
just are you
and you're holding her and there's just
an experience there
and the more that you tap into that
experience or you don't have a bank
account you don't have a mortgage you
don't even have a name you're just like
a human and you're in enveloped within
that experience and it feels [ __ ]
amazing
watching a sunset
you know
yeah
like
taking a really good piss
after you've been driving for a long
time
and at that point yeah i chase i chased
that feeling that that
clarity i suppose you could call it the
the
stillness i i've chased that feeling
with all kinds of destructive ways
throughout my life because my
thoughts are so loud
and so gambling that would quiet those
thoughts or drugs may have quieted those
thoughts or sex may have quieted those
thoughts and so beautiful or or
obsessively playing video games or chess
i mean just i would chase that feeling
of stillness because whenever i would
not have something to stimulate my mind
these loud negative thoughts would just
sort of
swim in my mind with you a hundred
percent right so now we come to social
media and dopamine
yeah so what happens so first thing is
that social media amplifies our ego
because what we're doing is we're not
showing we're showing ourselves to the
world right it's all about display it's
all about resume it's all about what you
show it's not about who you are
and so is where that we actually have a
lot of like stuff that is moving us away
from our
self and into our identity and so
suffering is coming with it but holy
[ __ ] is it dopaminergically reinforcing
because it feels good
right sometimes
yeah and it and it feels bad which then
begs the question why on earth are we
doing it if it feels bad so you know
like you're kind of saying you're on
twitter for eight hours and that's where
like what's happening is we're getting
like that dopamine reinforcement without
any sort of like spiritual gratification
it's like spiritually empty
yes right and so this is where what we
we tend to find is that people chase
oblivion they chase the stillness they
actually chase nirvana which is like the
state of enlightenment
with drugs
because it like it gets us kind of close
to there
and this is why like buddha figured this
out and he was like
you can get to that sense of peace
consistently and even permanently you
can live in that way where 24 7 you are
detached from your identity and you're
just living as an experiencer and that
is enlightenment
and he was like that would work in the
western world but yeah
so it it wouldn't
right so this is the challenge is that
like someone who's enlightened doesn't
care about their resume and so they
won't necessarily chase success and so
it is problematic
he ran into a lot of problems in his
material life
and then we kind of get to why you've
struggled for it
why this has been a problem for you and
that's because your karma
is
to learn
so i think you've been given so i've
noticed this really interesting trend
which is that people who have a lot to
be grateful for suffer a lot in terms of
questions of like identity
and so there's an interesting there's
even an interesting theory that
the more ready you are for spiritual
growth the greater advantages you'll be
born with
because you can't meditate on an empty
stomach you can't chase enlightenment if
you have to worry about making rent at
the end of the month
literally the adrenaline and cortisol
and the stress you don't have time for
any of that crap
and it feels a bit
i i don't know if it feels a bit like
earlier than now though
it looked like well i had good karma
therefore i've been you know i've had
some yeah
so i don't like thinking about it in
terms of separating me from other people
it could have been just a crap shoot
just total luck luck of the draw yeah so
that's your ego as well
so any comparison that you make to
another person is your ego
okay we're not talking about other
people we're talking about you
okay you know if you think about taking
care of your nephew does that make you a
better uncle than most people
sure
most people aren't going to do as much
for their nephew as you will
because
most people's enough you still have a
mom
but we're not concerned about them we're
not saying that you're holier than now
it's just it's your [ __ ] duty
it is it is you
has nothing to do with anyone else
all right
so i wouldn't worry about that like
seriously
this is an important point and it's all
there it's their karma too don't worry
about it
so i say this to a lot of people
but it's important for you to understand
that like this like this is an important
question for like your growth as a human
you know and i think you're grappling
with which i think is super healthy like
it's fantastic
the question being who am i or what yes
yes
and this idea of like you know when i
share with you that you're not and not
not enough is not a real thing
all you've ever been is what you are and
all you will ever be is what you are
and the more centered you become in that
the happier you'll
be i get kind of tripped up on i just
sometimes i think about
the fact that i'm one bad year away from
being a monster you know like i don't
if i go through some
some people that we we consider to be
evil or whatever um
they had a
young self they had a young pure self at
one point and then something happened to
them people don't choose to become evil
and do evil things
so sometimes i think about like the
fragility of
of uh identity and how it can be broken
down by horrible and traumatic
experiences and i get afraid
and what if something really [ __ ] up
happens to me and then
i turn into a monster i i don't think
about that so much any anymore these
days i'm i have those thoughts less but
that was one thing i got really tripped
up on when i was about
19 or 20
i couldn't see a meaningful difference
between me and
you know evil people
it's all turbulence at the top
i'm not saying that you didn't see i'm
with you
that you had those thoughts
but
even if you're a monster i know it
sounds kind of weird
you are what you
are right and i know that sounds kind of
like a weird spiritual statement but
it's actually like a scientific
statement no you can't you know and so
that's where like and the more you begin
to understand that
like sometimes you got to be careful
because you'll have like false gurus
who will use that as justification to do
horrendous things
the most common example is you know
spiritual gurus who put their dick where
it doesn't belong
no that happens
all the time
so but but i actually think that on some
level like you know you have to
understand that we're all one step away
from becoming a monster
that's how we
you have to respect it
right that's what's going to make you
like a good person
like is like the the people the people
who commit the worst evils in the world
are the ones who are convinced that
they're righteous and they're not
monsters
sure yeah
so so i and i think this this also goes
into
like
non-dualism and things like that but
this is just the idea that there's
neither good nor bad there's just what
is like like you know go outside and
look at a flower is the flower good or
is it bad then look at a blade of grass
is the blade of grass good or bad now if
your mind is comparative it'll say that
the flower is prettier than the blade of
grass then you'll assign a judgment you
won't accept things as they are and then
you'll elevate some people and you'll
you'll denigrate others
the blade of grass is just doing its
thing
you know yeah that's isn't that more or
less the whole point of the yin yang the
the fact that the it's all encompassed
in one circle so that's duality is an
illusion
yes
yes yeah
yeah and so are you a monster or are you
a good person
i mean i can be a shitty person for sure
but i i
i genuinely try to be a good person i
try to be an empathetic person yeah so i
think as long as you live that way right
so as long as you recognize that there's
both within you
then i think you'll move towards being a
better person
and and if we think about like you know
what that core is that core of you is
capable of everything and nothing are
you sean or you hutch well i'm kind of
both
and there are arguments to be made that
that's a contradiction that you can't be
two people sean
right people will say like you can't be
both that's stupid you got to have one
name but no that's not how it is they're
neat it's neither you you're not a
monster you're not a good person you are
what you are
everything and nothing
yep yeah
yeah okay
well you've given me a lot to think
about
that's what we're here for
um i've really enjoyed this conversation
by the way thanks thank you for having
me on i appreciate the insight me too
how do you feel about learning a little
bit of meditation
uh
my thoughts get loud but i'm down i'm
i'm open to the experience okay
so
if this isn't um
if this is hard for you not a big deal
there are other techniques that we'll
we'll send you so we have a we made a
meditation guide and you should get
access to that just because you're a
guest on stream so you know you can
watch that and there are a bunch of
techniques like introductory things that
you can start with but based on where
you are there's a particular technique
that i want to share with you
and it's kind of tricky so it's sort of
an advanced technique and you may not be
ready for it yet you may have to work up
to it but i still want to share it with
you okay
so
i'm going to start reading to you okay
but what i want you to do is close your
so sit up straight so your spine should
be straight when you meditate and then
i'm going to start saying different
things to you okay
but what i and that i'm going to
instruct you to pay attention to
different things while i'm speaking to
you it's gonna be weird okay so first
i'm gonna ask you to pay attention to
the words
that i'm saying
all right
and then what i'm gonna ask you to pay
attention to is not the words
but where the words enter your ear
so i want you to notice not what you
hear
but the faculty of hearing
does that make sense
yeah
and so what we're going to sort of
recognize is that the words are outside
of you right there's you and then
there's the words on the outside with me
yeah
and how do we determine that the words
are on the outside it's because you are
observing them so you're the observer
and they're the object of observation
right
and so then what's going to happen is
when i ask you to observe the faculty of
hearing is the faculty of hearing a part
of you or is it then outside of you
okay so i know it's it's weird
feels inside i don't know it does feel
inside that's why we're gonna do this
practice okay
so
um i want you to start by listening to
my words okay
and just try to you know interpret them
and understand them so the development
of adult attachment styles for lessons
why are some adults secure or insecure
in their relationships the authors
review four lessons they have learned
from longitudinal research on the
developmental antecedents of adult
attachment styles
first although adult attachment appears
to have its origins in early caregiving
experiences
those associations are weak and
inconsistent across measurement domains
second attachment styles appear to be
more malleable in childhood and
adolescence
so now what i want you to do is don't
listen to my words i'm gonna keep
reading but i want you to pay attention
to the faculty of hearing
notice your ability to hear
and don't really focus on the words okay
third early experiences do not determine
adult outcomes fourth there is still a
lot to learn and future research
requires examining relationship specific
attachment patterns the distinction
between distal and proximal factors and
interactions between relational and
genetic vulnerabilities
addresses
university of illinois at
urbana-champaign usa
university of minnesota usa
corresponding author
fraylee r chris
so now what i want you to do i'm going
to keep reading to you in a second
is
move between hearing my words right now
and noticing the faculty of hearing
and notice that as the experiencer
you can observe the words on the outside
and the words are on the outside and the
person who experiences it is on the
inside
but as you notice now go to the faculty
of hearing
and notice that as you as you move into
the faculty of hearing suddenly the
experiencer goes further within
and your ability to hear
is actually
outside of you now you're observing it
from within
it's no longer a part of you but is
actually outside of you
and now what we're gonna do is open your
eyes
and look at my face
and see my face
see the different now look at your room
notice all the different objects in your
room
and i want you to pick one direction
and instead of looking at an object let
your eyes remain open
notice the faculty of sight
so notice that there is a looking not on
any particular object
but that there's like all sorts of
objects there and that there's a looker
and put your attention on the site
itself not the object of the site
does that make sense
as much as it can
and so if you want to do the third level
of this practice
you can actually
notice the faculty of sight
okay
then what you can do is look at a
picture of your sister
and what you'll see is that within the
when you look at the picture of sister
there's the object
you can notice the faculty of sight and
then there's an internal emotional
experience that'll happen when you see
her and then what i want you to do is
zoom out and look at that emotional
experience there will be sadness there
will be grief there will be tragedy
there will be love but you can even take
a step back from that and just look at
all of those feelings
and when you keep on going all the way
inside what you'll notice is that
even though you feel sad there will be
peace in spite of the sadness
and then eventually if you keep going
you'll find what's at the bottom of the
ocean and that everything above it is
waves
is that the same thing as catharsis
so i'd say catharsis is a slice of this
process but it goes deeper than
catharsis
yeah
so
what a what catharsis is what i'd say is
that as long as the mind is turbulent we
can't see inside and all the knowledge
is really at the bottom
what catharsis is is like
a moment where all the waves are still
and then we can see into something and
then we have like this revelation that
is like transformative
yeah
but it goes even deeper than that
so i'd say that
there are stages of enlightenment and
i'd say catharsis is arguably like
catharsis in the flow state or like
early early early stages of some idea or
temporary enlightenment
okay gotcha
well i did feel um
a bit calmer after that exercise
immediately opening opening my eyes felt
like i was in a different place
yeah so you know i think the good news
is that the spiritual stuff like we
don't really know
much
if any of that [ __ ] works we just don't
know there just isn't data the good news
is that any of it will affect your
cortisol and neuro adrenaline
any of it will affect your co2 your
respiratory rate your o2
all those things no spiritual stuff
aside from like a physiologic
perspective there's overwhelming data
that you know any kind of mindfulness
practice will help
so at the least you'll get some kind of
physiologic benefit and if any of this
weird spiritual stuff happens to be
correct you may get something a little
bit more
how often do you meditate
do you do it every day every day
so i do different kinds of meditation
there's one sort of meditation that i've
done every day
but at a minimum of three breaths is is
like kind of the core meditation that i
do and then i'll do like formal
meditation practices maybe about 20
minutes a day three to five days a week
okay
it sounds like a realistic goal yeah so
i'd start with five minutes and it i
don't know if you know but our practice
was like two or three minutes that's it
man
so like you don't have to do a whole lot
to feel a little bit better i was
teaching this one practice in the
emergency room that was like
180 seconds and people loved it it was
enough for them
but
cool i had um one more question for you
that's okay yeah you said that you
worked with um terminally ill patients
i'm wondering
what kind of an effect that had on you i
mean how did you
how do you not
succumb to the overwhelming sadness you
must have felt connecting with these
people that were coming to the end of
their lives what is it what does
maintenance for a therapist look like
it's a beautiful question so um how did
it affect me it helped me understand
life in a profound way
so i am grateful for that ex there's a
handful of experiences i'm really
grateful for and that's definitely the
top of the list
yeah you know we live our entire lives
like getting caught up with crap that
doesn't matter
talking about like oh you know so and so
didn't like invite me to their birthday
party
you know and like there's like even crap
going on like in the residency where
like
you know there's like a class president
and like people are applying for crap
and this person like five people are
applying for this grant and only one
person got it it's all kind of crap that
our ego
gets wrapped up in that we think is
important because it has to do with me
so the biggest lesson that i learned is
like a lot of that crap doesn't matter
really gives you perspective
yeah
and as for how i survived
well i noticed the emotions and then i
stepped away from them
let's see
right so like even like i was super sad
with you like i felt tragedy and so be
it
right that's not tragedy is not i know
it sounds kind of weird but it's not a
bad part of life it's just a part of
life
no i understand that
so
yeah
well
thank you so much for your time i
appreciate the um a little bit of
clarity you helped me get today it means
a lot to me thank you for coming on and
sharing and i really you know appreciate
the work that you do do you want to tell
us where we can find um especially like
your podcast and some of the newer
things like you stream on twitch youtube
like where can we find you
yeah if you just search so on twitter
it's hutchinson it's my last name
on youtube it's hutch on twitter touch
and if you're looking for the podcast
where i talk to other creators about
mental health stuff it's called fitter
happier and you can find it on spotify
and apple
at this point
um so yeah that's that's that's my
little neck of the internet
so thank you so much hutch for coming on
and um you know good luck on your
wedding and congratulations bro
thank you i really appreciate that take
care man bye you too bye
alrighty chat
that was fun
you know you learn to get distance from
it but that doesn't mean that it isn't
isn't exhausting